Global warming is a dangerous effect on our environment that we are facing these days. Rapid industrialization, increase in the population growth and pollution are causing a rise in global warming. Global warming refers to the increase in the average temperature of the earth's surface during the last century. One of the reasons why global warming is dangerous is because it disturbs the overall ecology of the planet. This results in floods, famine, cyclones and other issues. There are many causes and results of this warming and is a danger for the existence of life on earth.

The sign of global warming is already visible with many natural phenomena happening around globally, affecting each living species.

The most evident causes of global warming are industrialization, urbanization, deforestation, sophisticated human activities. These human activities have led to an increase in the emission of the greenhouse, including CO₂, nitrous oxide, methane, and others.



Causes of Global Warming

Global warming is certainly an alarming situation, which is causing a significant impact on life existence. Extreme global warming is resulting in natural calamities, which is quite evident happening around. One of the reasons behind global warming is the extreme release of greenhouse gases stuck on the earth surface, resulting in the temperature increase.

Similarly, volcanoes are also leading global warming because they spew too much CO₂ in the air. One of the significant causes behind global warming is the increase in the population. This increase in the population also results in air pollution. Automobiles release a lot of CO₂, which remains stuck in the earth.

This increase in the population is also leading to deforestation, which further results in global warming. More and more trees are being cut, increasing the concentration of CO₂.

The greenhouse is the natural process where the sunlight passes through the area, thus warming the earth's surface. The earth surface releases energy in the form of heat in the atmosphere maintaining the balance with the incoming energy. Global warming depletes the ozone layer leading to the doom's day.

There is a clear indication that the increase in global warming will lead to the complete extinction of life from the earth surface.



Solution for Global Warming-

Although we are almost late in slowing down the global warming rate, it is crucial to find the right solution. From individuals to governments, everyone has to work upon a solution for global warming. Controlling pollution, population and use of natural resources are some of the factors to consider. Switching over to the electric and hybrid car is the best way to bring down the carbon dioxide.

As a citizen, it is best to switch over to the hybrid car and to use public transport. This will reduce pollution and congestion. Another significant contribution you can do is minimise the use of plastic. Plastic is the primary cause of global warming taking years to recycle.

Deforestation is another thing to consider that will help in controlling global warming. Planting of more trees should be encouraged to make the environment go green.

Industrialization should be under certain norms. The building of industries should be banned in green zones affecting plants and species. Hefty penalties should be levied on such sectors contributing towards global warming.



Effects of Global Warming

The effect of global warming is widely seen in this decade. Glacier retreat and arctic shrinkage are the two common phenomena seen. Glaciers are melting in a fast way. These are pure examples of climate change.

Rise in sea level is another significant effect of global warming. This sea-level rise is leading to floods in low-lying areas. Extreme weather conditions are witnessed in many countries. Unseasonal rainfall, extreme heat and cold, wildfires and others are common every year. The number of these cases is increasing. This will indeed imbalance the ecosystem bringing the result of the extinction of species.

Similarly, marine life is also widely getting affected due to the increase in global warming. This is resulting in the death of marine species and other issues. Moreover, the changes are expected in coral reefs, which are going to face the end in coming years.

These effects will take a steep rise in coming years, bringing the expansion of species to a halt. Moreover, humans too will witness the negative impact of global warming in the end.